Adds a new page for read-only roles (#2280)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/security/read-only-role.md

---
title: Read-only role
excerpt: Create a role to allow read-only access to your database
product: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [client credentials, accounts, users, members, read-only, security]
tags: [authentication, credentials, members, security]
---

# Read-only user

You can create a role that provides read-only access to your database.

<Highlight type="important">
Adding a read-only user role to your database does not provide resource
isolation. If you require the security of a read-only user, as well as resource
isolation, you can create a read replica instead. For more information, see the
[read scaling](/use-timescale/latest/ha-replicas/read-scaling/)
section.
</Highlight>

## Create a read-only user

You can create a read-only user to provide limited access to your database.

<Procedure>

### Creating a read-only user

1.  At the psql prompt, create the new role:

    ```sql
    CREATE ROLE readaccess;

>     ```

Reviewer: we can add that you must connect as `tsdbadmin`, otherwise we get` ERROR:  permission denied to create role`. 
As far as I know, 95-99% of people use this role to perform administration of their DB. The rest create a new role and reassign admin rights to it.

1.  Grant the appropriate permissions for the role, as required:

    ```sql
    GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE tsdb TO readaccess;

>     GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO readaccess;

Reviewer: By default, we do use the `public` schema. But since Cloud supports creating multiple schemas within a single database, I would take that into account. 
if somebody uses a custom-made schema they need to do the following before granting `SELECT ON ALL TABLES`:
`GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA <schema_name> TO readaccess;`
and then:
- if they want to grant SELECT permission to all tables in a specific schema, run the following command:
`GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA <schema_name> TO readaccess;`
- if you want to grant SELECT permission for a specific table, run the following command:
`GRANT SELECT ON <table_name> TO readaccess;`

what do you think?

>     GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO readaccess;

Reviewer: `GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO readaccess;` does not seem to work due to the `pg_buffercache` that `tsdbadmin` does not have access to. 
I will go to the developers and try to find a workaround.

Reviewer: I figured it out. `pg_buffercache` can be dropped on the customer side using `tsdbadmin` and it is not automatically created on every service. Customers can decide whether to use `pg_buffercache` or not. 

Long story short, `GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO readaccess;`  should work by default on all services. If anyone encounters this issue, the support team will be able to help them.

---
title: Read-only role
excerpt: Create a role to allow read-only access to your database
product: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [client credentials, accounts, users, members, read-only, security]
tags: [authentication, credentials, members, security]
---

# Read-only user

You can create a role that provides read-only access to your database.

<Highlight type="important">
Adding a read-only user role to your database does not provide resource

> isolation. If you require the security of a read-only user, as well as resource
> isolation, you can create a read replica instead. For more information, see the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
isolation. If you want to restrict the access of a read-only user, as well as isolate resources, you can create a read replica instead. For more information, see the
```
